---
source_url: https://yessenovfoundation.org/en/priyom-zayavok-na-stipendiyu-esenova-startuet-2-fevralya
lang: en
title: YESSENOV SCHOLARSHIP: APPLICATIONS OPEN ON FEB 2 | Shakhmardan Yessenov Foundation
---

The material is also available in:

The Shakhmardan Yessenov Foundation , established by Galimzhan Yessenov , will open applications for its annual Shakhmardan Yessenov Scholarship competition on February 2. This year marks the 99th anniversary of the birth of the prominent Kazakh scientist, geologist, academician, and statesman. 20 winners of the competition will receive recognition, an important line in their CVs, and 70,000 tenge monthly. Aigerym Sultan, the Foundation’s Scholarship Program Manager, shares more details about the competition.

Who can participate in the Shakhmardan Yessenov Scholarship competition? As usual, it is open to citizens of Kazakhstan who are full-time students at any Kazakhstani HEI, except those in their first or final year of study.

Why are these years excluded? First-year students do not yet have a full annual transcript to demonstrate consistent academic performance (a GPA of 3.0 or higher), which is a mandatory requirement to participate in the competition. As for the final-year students, the competition concludes in early April, and the Scholarship is disbursed from May of the current year to April of the following year. Consequently, graduates would lose their eligibility for the Scholarship as soon as they complete their studies in June.

What are the other requirements for the Scholarship applicants? All details are outlined in the Program Provisions on the Yessenov Foundation website. In addition to the points mentioned above, I would like to highlight that the applicant’s speciality must correspond to those listed in the Provisions. These include natural sciences as well as areas such as information and communication technologies, engineering, manufacturing and construction industries, and healthcare.

How do the application requirements differ this year from previous years? This year, the main terms of the competition remain unchanged: we continue to evaluate academic performance (GPA), activity in student life, participation in volunteer and social initiatives, scientific involvement, as well as the candidate’s motivation and potential. Therefore, it is especially important not only to attach all required documents but also to demonstrate achievements and involvement in university life as fully as possible.

Can you provide any life hacks, tips, or advice for this year’s competitors? Well, first, applications and documents are accepted in both the state language (Kazakh) and Russian. We recommend applying in the language you feel most comfortable communicating in. The only exceptions are certificates, which may be in English or other languages. Second, the application deadline is March 3 at 3:00 PM . Based on our experience, we strongly advise against submitting your application on the very last day, and especially not in the final hours. The system load may cause technical issues. For example, some documents might fail to upload. Besides, why should a competitor deal with extra stress? Especially since no applications will be accepted after the specified time. The application period lasts for a full month, starting from February 2.

How is the competition conducted? It follows the Foundation’s traditional format. In the first stage, experts from the Yessenov Foundation – staff members and winners of our programs – select the best candidates based on their applications and submitted documents. Active participation in scientific and social life at their HEI, academic achievements, potential, presence of scientific publications, involvement in student and volunteer activities are taken into account. Around 40 finalists will be selected.

In the second and most important stage, candidates undergo online interviews with a psychologist and trainer, both individually and in groups, where they must solve assigned tasks together. At this stage of the competition, the following qualities are evaluated: communication skills, value systems, motivation, emotional intelligence, general psychological maturity, mindset, and a readiness to fulfill the Foundation’s mission – the development of Kazakhstan’s intellectual potential – and much more. In the first week of April, we will receive the list of winners, which may be fewer than 20, depending on the level of participants. We believe it will be high. All dates and specific details regarding the competition stages are described in depth in the Program Provisions on our website.

A Scholarship is primarily about money. Why do you believe it contributes to the personal and professional development of young Kazakhstanis? Many undergraduate students, for whom this competition is held, face financial challenges. This forces them to seek part-time jobs. Some of them have to support their families, while others save on food. The standard state scholarship, which starts from 52,000 tenge, is simply not enough, considering the high cost of living in Kazakhstan’s major university centers. Because of this, they have neither the time nor the means for additional courses, books, or attending paid events related to their professional interests. They cannot afford to travel to a scientific conference, even within the country. They lack the finances to implement their professional or scientific projects or, for example, to take the IELTS exam. In other words, these young people have no opportunity to invest in their future.

Our Scholarship provides them with relative financial freedom, significantly expanding their opportunities. This is confirmed by the success stories of the Foundation’s Scholarship recipients. According to them, the Yessenov Scholarship allows them to afford many things that were previously out of reach. However, how they allocate these funds is their personal choice and right. We do not monitor this or require reporting. They are adults and it is up to them to decide how to use the Shakhmardan Yessenov Scholarship. We would be pleased if it is used for self-development.

How many beneficiaries have advanced their development thanks to the Yessenov Foundation Scholarship over the years? We have been holding the Shakhmardan Yessenov Scholarship competition for 13 years. During this time, more than 4,300 students have participated. We began modestly, awarding Scholarships to just 5 of the best students from Satbayev University – Shakhmardan Yessenov’s alma mater. Today, the competition is open to all universities and students in Kazakhstan, with only 2 out of the 20 Scholarships reserved specifically for that university. Over the years, 196 young Kazakhstanis have become Scholarship recipients, representing 85 specialities and 46 HEIs across the country. This year, we expect another 20 talented students to join their ranks.

So, applications for the Yessenov Scholarship open on February 2 and close on March 3 . The selection results for the 20 Scholarship winners will be announced in the first week of April 2026. Full details regarding participation in the competition can be found in the Program Provisions on the Foundation’s website.

15.01.26, Newsfeed , Newsfeed

Seen by: 930