---
source_url: https://yessenovfoundation.org/en/about-us/the-expert-board
lang: en
title: The Expert Board — Shakhmardan Yessenov Foundation
---

- Eldar Akhmetgaliyev Technical expert, serial entrepreneur At the moment, the chief artificial intelligence specialist in the company narya.ai , dealing with cybersecurity of blockchain projects. Former Chief Science Officer at BallerTV (2022), founder of the startup MOCAP Analytics (2012-sold to Sportradar in 2017), has gained extensive experience in various fields: research in Applied Mathematics, Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence, Green Technologies, Blockchain Technologies, Sports Analytics and Sports Technologies. In 2009 he graduated from the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology (Bachelor’s degree, Master’s degree), in 2015 – California Institute of Technology (PhD). linkedin

### Eldar Akhmetgaliyev

At the moment, the chief artificial intelligence specialist in the company narya.ai , dealing with cybersecurity of blockchain projects. Former Chief Science Officer at BallerTV (2022), founder of the startup MOCAP Analytics (2012-sold to Sportradar in 2017), has gained extensive experience in various fields: research in Applied Mathematics, Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence, Green Technologies, Blockchain Technologies, Sports Analytics and Sports Technologies. In 2009 he graduated from the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology (Bachelor’s degree, Master’s degree), in 2015 – California Institute of Technology (PhD). linkedin

- Rinat Iskakov Professor at Satbayev University Professor at Satbayev University. Expert in the field of synthesis and production technologies of special-purpose polymers, polymer materials with relaxation and stimulus sensitive memory, and polymer coatings and thin films. In 1991 he graduated from the Moscow Institute of Fine Chemical Technology, in 1997 — the University of Texas (Master’s degree), Doctor of Chemical Sciences (1999-2003 Tokyo Institute of Advanced Biomaterials). linkedin

### Rinat Iskakov

Professor at Satbayev University. Expert in the field of synthesis and production technologies of special-purpose polymers, polymer materials with relaxation and stimulus sensitive memory, and polymer coatings and thin films. In 1991 he graduated from the Moscow Institute of Fine Chemical Technology, in 1997 — the University of Texas (Master’s degree), Doctor of Chemical Sciences (1999-2003 Tokyo Institute of Advanced Biomaterials). linkedin

- Marina Skiba Chair of the Expert Council in Independent Agency for Accreditation and Rating Chair of the Expert Council in Independent Agency for Accreditation and Rating, expert of Higher Education Development National Center on the development of educational programs, ambassador of the ETF (European Training Foundation), expert of the NCSTE (National Center of Science and Technology Evaluation), expert of BTS-education, ex-rector of the Financial Academy, consultant on the development of innovative educational programs, Candidate of Pedagogic Sciences, associate professor. linkedin

### Marina Skiba

Chair of the Expert Council in Independent Agency for Accreditation and Rating, expert of Higher Education Development National Center on the development of educational programs, ambassador of the ETF (European Training Foundation), expert of the NCSTE (National Center of Science and Technology Evaluation), expert of BTS-education, ex-rector of the Financial Academy, consultant on the development of innovative educational programs, Candidate of Pedagogic Sciences, associate professor. linkedin

- Nurlybek Kasimov Research Associate at Oracle In 2010 he graduated from the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology (Bachelor’s degree, Master’s degree). In 2016, he defended his doctoral thesis (PhD) at the University of Colorado Boulder. Manages a team of Data Scientists, Data Engineers, and Backend Engineers to solve a wide range of tasks using coordinate data and machine learning in sports (NFL, NBA) – identification of complex game moments, definition and classification of advanced statistics, analysis and development of mathematical and algorithmic models for sports betting. linkedin

### Nurlybek Kasimov

In 2010 he graduated from the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology (Bachelor’s degree, Master’s degree). In 2016, he defended his doctoral thesis (PhD) at the University of Colorado Boulder. Manages a team of Data Scientists, Data Engineers, and Backend Engineers to solve a wide range of tasks using coordinate data and machine learning in sports (NFL, NBA) – identification of complex game moments, definition and classification of advanced statistics, analysis and development of mathematical and algorithmic models for sports betting. linkedin

- Yerlan Idelbayev Researcher at Snap He graduated from the International University of Information Technology, Almaty, Kazakhstan (2013, Bachelor’s degree), the University of California, San Diego (2016, Master’s degree), the University of California, Merced (2021, PhD in Computer Science). He is engaged in scientific research in the field of numerical optimization in neural network compression and other machine learning tasks. Author of many articles (15+) and patents (2). In his career as a scientist he worked/trained at Facebook (Meta), Google, Nvidia, Amazon. linkedin

### Yerlan Idelbayev

He graduated from the International University of Information Technology, Almaty, Kazakhstan (2013, Bachelor’s degree), the University of California, San Diego (2016, Master’s degree), the University of California, Merced (2021, PhD in Computer Science). He is engaged in scientific research in the field of numerical optimization in neural network compression and other machine learning tasks. Author of many articles (15+) and patents (2). In his career as a scientist he worked/trained at Facebook (Meta), Google, Nvidia, Amazon. linkedin

- Azat Suleimenov Technical Expert, Manager Head of the powertrain systems team at Lucid Motors. Has gained experience in the building/modeling of electric motors/transmissions, complex optimization and modeling of cars, green technologies, system optimizations. In 2017 he graduated from Boston University (Master in Materials Engineering) In 2015 he graduated from Nazarbayev University (Bachelor in Chemical Engineering) In 2014 he completed an internship at the laboratory of thermoelectric materials at Caltech under the “Scientific internships in the world laboratories” program. linkedin

### Azat Suleimenov

Head of the powertrain systems team at Lucid Motors. Has gained experience in the building/modeling of electric motors/transmissions, complex optimization and modeling of cars, green technologies, system optimizations. In 2017 he graduated from Boston University (Master in Materials Engineering) In 2015 he graduated from Nazarbayev University (Bachelor in Chemical Engineering) In 2014 he completed an internship at the laboratory of thermoelectric materials at Caltech under the “Scientific internships in the world laboratories” program. linkedin

- Tamirlan Seidakhmetov Technical Expert in Data Science Currently serving as a Data Science Manager within Apple’s Services organization, where he specializes in product analytics and data science for various applications. Prior to this, worked as a Data Scientist at CCC Information Services, a Chicago-based insurance technology company. In 2015, earned a Bachelor’s degree in Chemical Engineering from Nazarbayev University. Subsequently, in 2016, completed Master’s degree in Management Science & Engineering from Stanford University. The winner of the “Scientific Internships in the world laboratories” program, completed an internship in California Institute of Technology. linkedin

### Tamirlan Seidakhmetov

Currently serving as a Data Science Manager within Apple’s Services organization, where he specializes in product analytics and data science for various applications. Prior to this, worked as a Data Scientist at CCC Information Services, a Chicago-based insurance technology company. In 2015, earned a Bachelor’s degree in Chemical Engineering from Nazarbayev University. Subsequently, in 2016, completed Master’s degree in Management Science & Engineering from Stanford University. The winner of the “Scientific Internships in the world laboratories” program, completed an internship in California Institute of Technology. linkedin

- Aigul Imadildayeva KZ office Head, Senior Software Engineer. POWr Graduated from Satpayev University in 2008, where she specialized in IT security. Then obtained her Master’s degree in IT management from the University Technology Malaysia in 2010. She was awarded the Bolashak scholarship and emerged as the winner of the “Internships in IT startups in USA” program of Shakhmardan Yessenov Foundation. linkedin

### Aigul Imadildayeva

Graduated from Satpayev University in 2008, where she specialized in IT security. Then obtained her Master’s degree in IT management from the University Technology Malaysia in 2010. She was awarded the Bolashak scholarship and emerged as the winner of the “Internships in IT startups in USA” program of Shakhmardan Yessenov Foundation. linkedin

- Aidos Sarsembayev Machine Learning Engineer, Data Scientist, Professor Senior Machine Learning engineer in one of the Kazakhstani companies focusing on the use of AI to optimize business processes. Professor at the International Information Technology University (IITU). He has gained extensive experience in such areas of machine learning as computer vision, speech technologies (speech recognition and synthesis), classical machine learning. In 2011, he graduated from Satpayev Kazakh National Technical University with bachelor’s degree in Automation of Technological Processes. In 2018, he completed his doctoral studies at the University of Genoa, Italy, in the field of Application of AI in Robotics. Winner of the program “Internships in IT startups in USA”. Co-author of the training program and teacher of the fourth week of the Yessenov Data Lab 2020 Summer School. linkedin

### Aidos Sarsembayev

Senior Machine Learning engineer in one of the Kazakhstani companies focusing on the use of AI to optimize business processes. Professor at the International Information Technology University (IITU). He has gained extensive experience in such areas of machine learning as computer vision, speech technologies (speech recognition and synthesis), classical machine learning. In 2011, he graduated from Satpayev Kazakh National Technical University with bachelor’s degree in Automation of Technological Processes. In 2018, he completed his doctoral studies at the University of Genoa, Italy, in the field of Application of AI in Robotics. Winner of the program “Internships in IT startups in USA”. Co-author of the training program and teacher of the fourth week of the Yessenov Data Lab 2020 Summer School. linkedin

- Almagul Zhanaidarova Founder & CTO at Apleum Technologies Entrepreneur and inventor with strong technical background in low carbon technologies. PhD with 10+ years of R&D experience at Caltech, Stanford and UCSD. linkedin

### Almagul Zhanaidarova

Entrepreneur and inventor with strong technical background in low carbon technologies. PhD with 10+ years of R&D experience at Caltech, Stanford and UCSD. linkedin

- Askarbek Orakov Postdoctoral fellow at European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL),Heidelberg, Germany His research is focused on development of fundamental bioinformatics tools, resources and databases that support the field of microbiology in general. Graduated from Bachelor’s in Biological Sciences at Nazarbayev University in 2018. The winner of the “Scientific Internships in the world laboratories” and “Yessenov Data Lab” programs, completed an internship in Boston University. linkedin

### Askarbek Orakov

His research is focused on development of fundamental bioinformatics tools, resources and databases that support the field of microbiology in general. Graduated from Bachelor’s in Biological Sciences at Nazarbayev University in 2018. The winner of the “Scientific Internships in the world laboratories” and “Yessenov Data Lab” programs, completed an internship in Boston University. linkedin

- Berik Kaliullayev A resident doctor specializing in anatomic pathology at the Hospital Universitari de Bellvitge (Barcelona, Spain) An internal medicine doctor by training whose clinical and research interests focus on nephrology. He graduated from the Kazakh National Medical University named after S.D.Asfendiyarov (bachelor’s degree, internship) and has clinical experience. He also worked as a teacher at Al-Farabi Kazakh National University.The winner of the “Research Internships in the World Laboratories” and “Graduate Studies” programs. He completed an internship at Mycobacteria Research Laboratories at Colorado State University. He got his Master of Science degree under the “Infectious Diseases and One Health” program at the Université de Tours, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona and University of Edinburgh. linkedin

### Berik Kaliullayev

An internal medicine doctor by training whose clinical and research interests focus on nephrology. He graduated from the Kazakh National Medical University named after S.D.Asfendiyarov (bachelor’s degree, internship) and has clinical experience. He also worked as a teacher at Al-Farabi Kazakh National University.The winner of the “Research Internships in the World Laboratories” and “Graduate Studies” programs. He completed an internship at Mycobacteria Research Laboratories at Colorado State University. He got his Master of Science degree under the “Infectious Diseases and One Health” program at the Université de Tours, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona and University of Edinburgh. linkedin

- Arailym Kamzabek General practitioner In the past, a research fellow at the Departments of Cardiovascular Medicine at Mayo Clinic and at the University of California San Francisco (UCSF) Cardiology, a research scientist at Tsinghua University, an expert at Independent Agency for Quality Assurance in Education (IQAA), founder of the startup WeDocs Future TM (2019). Winner of Kazakhstan’s First President state scholarships, Amgen Scholarship program, and winner of the “Scientific Internships in the world laboratories” program by Shakhmardan Yessenov Foundation. She has gained extensive experience in various fields of medicine and science: scientific research in the field of clinical decision support for doctors embedded in patients’ electronic medical records, cardiovascular effects of tobacco smoking and electronic cigarettes, preventive medicine. She was trained at the Mayo Clinic (Rochester) and the University of California (San Francisco). linkedin

### Arailym Kamzabek

In the past, a research fellow at the Departments of Cardiovascular Medicine at Mayo Clinic and at the University of California San Francisco (UCSF) Cardiology, a research scientist at Tsinghua University, an expert at Independent Agency for Quality Assurance in Education (IQAA), founder of the startup WeDocs Future TM (2019). Winner of Kazakhstan’s First President state scholarships, Amgen Scholarship program, and winner of the “Scientific Internships in the world laboratories” program by Shakhmardan Yessenov Foundation. She has gained extensive experience in various fields of medicine and science: scientific research in the field of clinical decision support for doctors embedded in patients’ electronic medical records, cardiovascular effects of tobacco smoking and electronic cigarettes, preventive medicine. She was trained at the Mayo Clinic (Rochester) and the University of California (San Francisco). linkedin

- Arailym Maikenova Doctor of Medicine. Gastroenterologist/Hepatologist Gastroenterologist/hepatologist. Education: Astana Medical University, Asfendiyarov Kazakh National Medical University Internships and specialization: – Vilnius University Hospital Santariskiu Klinikos, Vilnius, Lithuania; – NYU Langone Health, New York, USA; – Open Medical Institute and its partner institutions, the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia and Medical University of Graz, Salzburg, Austria. Additionally: – Author and co-author of 6 scientific publications; – Member of the external expert commission of the Eurasian Сentre for Accreditation and Quality Assurance in Higher Education and Health care; – Member of the European Association for the Study of the Liver (EASL). The winner of the “Scientific Internships in the world laboratories” program, completed an internship in NYU Langone Health – Fertility center. linkedin

### Arailym Maikenova

Gastroenterologist/hepatologist. Education: Astana Medical University, Asfendiyarov Kazakh National Medical University Internships and specialization: – Vilnius University Hospital Santariskiu Klinikos, Vilnius, Lithuania; – NYU Langone Health, New York, USA; – Open Medical Institute and its partner institutions, the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia and Medical University of Graz, Salzburg, Austria. Additionally: – Author and co-author of 6 scientific publications; – Member of the external expert commission of the Eurasian Сentre for Accreditation and Quality Assurance in Higher Education and Health care; – Member of the European Association for the Study of the Liver (EASL). The winner of the “Scientific Internships in the world laboratories” program, completed an internship in NYU Langone Health – Fertility center. linkedin

- Aigerim Sagandykova Data Scientist at Booking.com, Amsterdam, the Netherland She is a graduate of Suleyman Demirel University. The winner of the program “Internships in IT startups”. As part of the program, she trained in the company Healthiest.io San Francisco. Previously in Kaspi.kz she worked as a Data Science Team Lead. Leads. She keeps her own channel in Telegram. Career mentor. linkedin

### Aigerim Sagandykova

She is a graduate of Suleyman Demirel University. The winner of the program “Internships in IT startups”. As part of the program, she trained in the company Healthiest.io San Francisco. Previously in Kaspi.kz she worked as a Data Science Team Lead. Leads. She keeps her own channel in Telegram. Career mentor. linkedin

- Bimazhan Assatova Master’s Student at the University of Cambridge, PhD student at Harvard University this fall semester She is currently involved in the development of immunotherapy for patients with T-cell lymphoma and leukemia. She previously conducted research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) focusing on female reproductive system cancers and mechanisms of cancer therapy resistance. She also has extensive research experience studying oncology, stem cells, immunology, embryology, developmental biology, genetics, biotechnology, therapy development, and preclinical trials. Received training at the Max Planck Partner Group laboratory, UNIST in South Korea, Institute of Embryology and Genetics in Japan, Harvard and MIT in the United States.She graduated from Nazarbayev University in 2021. From 2021 to 2023, working at Harvard Medical School, she began graduate studies at the University of Cambridge in 2023. The winner of the “Research Internships in the World Laboratories” program, completed an internship in Robert Allan Weinberg laboratory at MIT. linkedin

### Bimazhan Assatova

She is currently involved in the development of immunotherapy for patients with T-cell lymphoma and leukemia. She previously conducted research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) focusing on female reproductive system cancers and mechanisms of cancer therapy resistance. She also has extensive research experience studying oncology, stem cells, immunology, embryology, developmental biology, genetics, biotechnology, therapy development, and preclinical trials. Received training at the Max Planck Partner Group laboratory, UNIST in South Korea, Institute of Embryology and Genetics in Japan, Harvard and MIT in the United States.She graduated from Nazarbayev University in 2021. From 2021 to 2023, working at Harvard Medical School, she began graduate studies at the University of Cambridge in 2023. The winner of the “Research Internships in the World Laboratories” program, completed an internship in Robert Allan Weinberg laboratory at MIT. linkedin

- Yevgeniy Kim Research assistant, Nazarbayev University School of Medicine He is working on a project to test a new type of therapy for myocardial infarction. He trained at institutes of cardiology in the USA and Japan. Author of more than 10 publications in prestigious scientific journals on immunology, molecular biology, and medicine. In 2021, he graduated from the Doctor of Medicine (MD) program at Nazarbayev University with Distinction. In 2017, he obtained bachelor’s degree in Biological Sciences at Nazarbayev University also with Distinction. He is the winner of the “Scientific Internships” program, according to which he completed an internship at the Vascular Medicine Institute at the University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, USA. linkedin

### Yevgeniy Kim

He is working on a project to test a new type of therapy for myocardial infarction. He trained at institutes of cardiology in the USA and Japan. Author of more than 10 publications in prestigious scientific journals on immunology, molecular biology, and medicine. In 2021, he graduated from the Doctor of Medicine (MD) program at Nazarbayev University with Distinction. In 2017, he obtained bachelor’s degree in Biological Sciences at Nazarbayev University also with Distinction. He is the winner of the “Scientific Internships” program, according to which he completed an internship at the Vascular Medicine Institute at the University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, USA. linkedin

- Yernar Amergaliyev Lead developer at toptal.com, founder of TodoChat startup, leader of the community of Kazakhstani toptellers His work experience is mainly related to developing React Native apps for iOS and Android. He started working at Quintiq which has a dozen of clients around the world and a team of 200 developers. As a developer, he constantly pursues the perfect performance and modern approach to technologies. Education: the Eurasian National University, Astana, Kazakhstan (2007-2009, Bachelor’s degree in Information Systems Development), Multimedia University, Cyberjaya, Malaysia (2009-2012, Bachelor’s Degree in Software Development).The winner of the “Internships in IT Startups in USA” program. linkedin

### Yernar Amergaliyev

His work experience is mainly related to developing React Native apps for iOS and Android. He started working at Quintiq which has a dozen of clients around the world and a team of 200 developers. As a developer, he constantly pursues the perfect performance and modern approach to technologies. Education: the Eurasian National University, Astana, Kazakhstan (2007-2009, Bachelor’s degree in Information Systems Development), Multimedia University, Cyberjaya, Malaysia (2009-2012, Bachelor’s Degree in Software Development).The winner of the “Internships in IT Startups in USA” program. linkedin

- Bexultan Abylkhani Technical expert, chemical engineer A PhD candidate at the Stanford University School of Sustainability. He researches and develops reduced order models for subsurface flow simulations (machine learning). He worked in engineering consulting and a tire recycling startup. He has a research experience studying mathematical modeling of groundwater and surface water, decomposition and combustion of solid waste, industrial and agricultural water treatment. He graduated from Nazarbayev University (2018, bachelor’s degree) and the University of Wisconsin-Madison (2020, Master’s degree). He is the winner of the “Summer Internship Program in the UK (Open University)” in 2017 and the holder of an educational grant for a master’s degree. linkedin

### Bexultan Abylkhani

A PhD candidate at the Stanford University School of Sustainability. He researches and develops reduced order models for subsurface flow simulations (machine learning). He worked in engineering consulting and a tire recycling startup. He has a research experience studying mathematical modeling of groundwater and surface water, decomposition and combustion of solid waste, industrial and agricultural water treatment. He graduated from Nazarbayev University (2018, bachelor’s degree) and the University of Wisconsin-Madison (2020, Master’s degree). He is the winner of the “Summer Internship Program in the UK (Open University)” in 2017 and the holder of an educational grant for a master’s degree. linkedin

- Irina Dolzhikova Instructor, Department of Computer Science, Nazarbayev University PhD in Science, Engineering and Technology at Nazarbayev University.She defended her thesis on the topic “Predictive Model for Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) Technology”. She obtained a bachelor’s degree with distinction (2016) and a master’s degree (2018) in Electrical and Electronic Engineering at Nazarbayev University. From 2017 to 2018, she worked as a Teaching Assistant at Nazarbayev University. From 2016 to 2018 she was engaged in scientific projects in the field of Microelectronics, and since 2019 she has been engaged in research in the field of BCI. She has gained experience in scientific research on machine learning focusing on deep machine learning (convolutional neural networks). Participated in the programs of the Shakhmardan Yessenov Foundation: in 2015, completed a summer internship at the Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) under the “Research Internships in the World Laboratories” program, in 2017 – became one of the winners of the “Yessenov Scholarship” program. linkedin

### Irina Dolzhikova

PhD in Science, Engineering and Technology at Nazarbayev University.She defended her thesis on the topic “Predictive Model for Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) Technology”. She obtained a bachelor’s degree with distinction (2016) and a master’s degree (2018) in Electrical and Electronic Engineering at Nazarbayev University. From 2017 to 2018, she worked as a Teaching Assistant at Nazarbayev University. From 2016 to 2018 she was engaged in scientific projects in the field of Microelectronics, and since 2019 she has been engaged in research in the field of BCI. She has gained experience in scientific research on machine learning focusing on deep machine learning (convolutional neural networks). Participated in the programs of the Shakhmardan Yessenov Foundation: in 2015, completed a summer internship at the Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) under the “Research Internships in the World Laboratories” program, in 2017 – became one of the winners of the “Yessenov Scholarship” program. linkedin

- Sultan Kobeyev Master in Integrated Building Systems at ETH Zurich Sultan is currently studying in his last semester at ETH Zurich in the Integrated Building Systems program, he is the first student from Kazakhstan to receive ETH Excellence Scholarship. He specializes in the energy efficiency of buildings, building-to-grid integration, power systems optimization, and thermal energy storage. In parallel to his studies, he is doing an internship at General Electric Switzerland, where he is developing software solutions for advanced thermo-economic optimization of combined cycle power plants and generating new algorithms for increasing the efficiency of heat recovery steam generators. Sultan received his bachelor’s degree in Civil Engineering in 2021 from Nazarbayev University. Sultan is the winner of the Program of the “Scientific Internships in the World Laboratories”, thanks to which he did an internship at the GREiA laboratory at the University of Lleida in Spain. linkedin

### Sultan Kobeyev

Sultan is currently studying in his last semester at ETH Zurich in the Integrated Building Systems program, he is the first student from Kazakhstan to receive ETH Excellence Scholarship. He specializes in the energy efficiency of buildings, building-to-grid integration, power systems optimization, and thermal energy storage. In parallel to his studies, he is doing an internship at General Electric Switzerland, where he is developing software solutions for advanced thermo-economic optimization of combined cycle power plants and generating new algorithms for increasing the efficiency of heat recovery steam generators. Sultan received his bachelor’s degree in Civil Engineering in 2021 from Nazarbayev University. Sultan is the winner of the Program of the “Scientific Internships in the World Laboratories”, thanks to which he did an internship at the GREiA laboratory at the University of Lleida in Spain. linkedin

- Sultan Mussakhan Research and Teaching Assistant at Brock University (Ontario, Canada) The doctoral thesis is aimed at studying human evolution based on the analysis of transposons in ancient DNA and their use as genetic markers. He is a graduate of the undergraduate and graduate programs at Nazarbayev University (2017 and 2019) and a three-time scholarship holder of the Shakhmardan Yessenov Foundation programs on scientific internships in 2015, 2016 and 2018. Sultan advocates for equality, inclusivity, diversity, and enlightenment through his creative and scientific work. He is one of the recipients of Brock University’s 2021-2022 Horizon Graduate Student Scholarship. linkedin

### Sultan Mussakhan

The doctoral thesis is aimed at studying human evolution based on the analysis of transposons in ancient DNA and their use as genetic markers. He is a graduate of the undergraduate and graduate programs at Nazarbayev University (2017 and 2019) and a three-time scholarship holder of the Shakhmardan Yessenov Foundation programs on scientific internships in 2015, 2016 and 2018. Sultan advocates for equality, inclusivity, diversity, and enlightenment through his creative and scientific work. He is one of the recipients of Brock University’s 2021-2022 Horizon Graduate Student Scholarship. linkedin

- Azamat Yessengazin PhD candidate at Pennsylvania State University He studying at Pennsylvania State University in chemistry program and explores the synthesis of new materials for thermoelectric purposes. He graduated from Nazarbayev University (2024, bachelor’s degree). He is the winner of the “Research Internships in the World Laboratories” program and trained at the Laboratory of Inorganic and Organometallic Chemistry at the Ohio State University, Columbus, USA. linkedin

### Azamat Yessengazin

He studying at Pennsylvania State University in chemistry program and explores the synthesis of new materials for thermoelectric purposes. He graduated from Nazarbayev University (2024, bachelor’s degree). He is the winner of the “Research Internships in the World Laboratories” program and trained at the Laboratory of Inorganic and Organometallic Chemistry at the Ohio State University, Columbus, USA. linkedin

- Aidar Alimbayev PhD student at MBZUAI (Abu Dhabi), Researcher He studies the problems of catalyst calculation by using artificial intelligence methods in applied chemistry. He worked as an engineer in the Nazarbayev University Fab Lab. He was also a technical consultant for startup projects and student teams. He was a senior researcher at the Department of Radio Engineering, Electronics and Telecommunications at the Kazakh Agrotechnical Research University (KATRU) named after S. Seifullin. In 2017, he earned a master’s degree in Radio Engineering from The Bonch-Bruevich St Petersburg State University of Telecommunications. He also trained at Texas A&M University, TAMIDS Scientific Machine Learning Lab under the guidance of Professor Ulisses Braga-Neto.Long distance swimmer “Pikeman 2022”. Participant of the Astana Marathon 2018, distance 42.2 km. linkedin

### Aidar Alimbayev

He studies the problems of catalyst calculation by using artificial intelligence methods in applied chemistry. He worked as an engineer in the Nazarbayev University Fab Lab. He was also a technical consultant for startup projects and student teams. He was a senior researcher at the Department of Radio Engineering, Electronics and Telecommunications at the Kazakh Agrotechnical Research University (KATRU) named after S. Seifullin. In 2017, he earned a master’s degree in Radio Engineering from The Bonch-Bruevich St Petersburg State University of Telecommunications. He also trained at Texas A&M University, TAMIDS Scientific Machine Learning Lab under the guidance of Professor Ulisses Braga-Neto.Long distance swimmer “Pikeman 2022”. Participant of the Astana Marathon 2018, distance 42.2 km. linkedin

- Aknur Kalilayeva Master's student at Göttingen University, Research Associate She is a research fellow specializing in optimization, actuarial mathematics, and statistics. She earned her Bachelor’s degree in Mathematics with honors from Nazarbayev University (2024). In 2022, she participated in the Study of the US Institutes in Women Leadership and Environmental Issues program in Washington, D.C., organized by the US Department of State. From 2022 to 2024, she worked as a scientific assistant professor at Nazarbayev University. Aknur is the winner of the “Yesenov Scholarship” program in 2022 and the Yessenov Data Lab in 2023. linkedin

### Aknur Kalilayeva

She is a research fellow specializing in optimization, actuarial mathematics, and statistics. She earned her Bachelor’s degree in Mathematics with honors from Nazarbayev University (2024). In 2022, she participated in the Study of the US Institutes in Women Leadership and Environmental Issues program in Washington, D.C., organized by the US Department of State. From 2022 to 2024, she worked as a scientific assistant professor at Nazarbayev University. Aknur is the winner of the “Yesenov Scholarship” program in 2022 and the Yessenov Data Lab in 2023. linkedin

- Yuliya Sabirova PhD Candidate. Teaching Assistant at Al-Farabi Kazakh National University She is actively engaged in research activities (Scopus). Since 2020, she has been implementing projects funded by the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan as a junior researcher. In 2022, she completed her masters and started a PhD program in Mathematical and Computer Modelling (MCM) at the Al-Farabi KazNU Department of Mechanics and Mathematics. She focuses on nonlinear mechanics of deformable media, in particular, on modeling the drilling equipment dynamics in difficult conditions. She combines research and teaching at the Department of Mathematical and Computer Modelling. linkedin

### Yuliya Sabirova

She is actively engaged in research activities (Scopus). Since 2020, she has been implementing projects funded by the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan as a junior researcher. In 2022, she completed her masters and started a PhD program in Mathematical and Computer Modelling (MCM) at the Al-Farabi KazNU Department of Mechanics and Mathematics. She focuses on nonlinear mechanics of deformable media, in particular, on modeling the drilling equipment dynamics in difficult conditions. She combines research and teaching at the Department of Mathematical and Computer Modelling. linkedin

- Alibek Adilzhan Teacher, research assistant He is a teacher at Kazakh-British Technical University (KBTU) and Almaty Management University (AlmaU), and an employee of the Institute of Mathematics and Mathematical Modeling. In 2024 he graduated from KBTU (bachelor’s and master’s degree in applied mathematics). linkedin

### Alibek Adilzhan

He is a teacher at Kazakh-British Technical University (KBTU) and Almaty Management University (AlmaU), and an employee of the Institute of Mathematics and Mathematical Modeling. In 2024 he graduated from KBTU (bachelor’s and master’s degree in applied mathematics). linkedin

- Dauren Sarsenbayev A PhD student and graduate research assistant at MIT Nuclear Science and Engineering He specializes in nuclear waste disposal and environmental modeling under the guidance of Professor Haruko Wainwright. He focuses on reactive transport modeling, heat and mass transfer, and data analytics, and studies methods to harness energy from high-level nuclear waste and analyzes data on groundwater from nuclear reprocessing and uranium mining sites to assess long-term environmental impacts. He developed practical skills during internships at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL) in 2022 and 2024, where he is still working under the guidance of Dr. Carl Steefel and Dr. LianGe Zheng. linkedin

### Dauren Sarsenbayev

He specializes in nuclear waste disposal and environmental modeling under the guidance of Professor Haruko Wainwright. He focuses on reactive transport modeling, heat and mass transfer, and data analytics, and studies methods to harness energy from high-level nuclear waste and analyzes data on groundwater from nuclear reprocessing and uranium mining sites to assess long-term environmental impacts. He developed practical skills during internships at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL) in 2022 and 2024, where he is still working under the guidance of Dr. Carl Steefel and Dr. LianGe Zheng. linkedin

- Nail Beisekenov Technical expert, PhD student and Graduate Research Assistant at Texas A&M University (Department of Ecology and Conservation Biology) He conducts research under the supervision of Professor Rusty A. Feagin, funded by NASA, focused on early-warning signals and ecological tipping points in tidal wetland ecosystems. His goal is to predict when these vital systems may approach collapse. His work integrates satellite remote sensing, ecological resilience theory, and statistical modeling to detect subtle signs of instability that precede major ecological shifts. Nail is the author of over 35 scientific publications indexed in Scopus (h-index = 7), holds two patents, and actively develops quantitative methods for analyzing resilience and adaptive management of coastal ecosystems. He is a recipient of the Shakhmardan Yessenov Foundation’s “Scientific Internships in World Laboratories” program, through which he completed a research internship at the APSU GIS Center (USA). Center. linkedin

### Nail Beisekenov

He conducts research under the supervision of Professor Rusty A. Feagin, funded by NASA, focused on early-warning signals and ecological tipping points in tidal wetland ecosystems. His goal is to predict when these vital systems may approach collapse. His work integrates satellite remote sensing, ecological resilience theory, and statistical modeling to detect subtle signs of instability that precede major ecological shifts.

Nail is the author of over 35 scientific publications indexed in Scopus (h-index = 7), holds two patents, and actively develops quantitative methods for analyzing resilience and adaptive management of coastal ecosystems. He is a recipient of the Shakhmardan Yessenov Foundation’s “Scientific Internships in World Laboratories” program, through which he completed a research internship at the APSU GIS Center (USA).

Center. linkedin

- Zhibek Bekezhankyzy Research Lab Specialist Associate, University of Michigan She conducts research on glioblastoma at the Department of Neurosurgery, Michigan Medical School. Previously she worked at Nazarbayev University as a medical researcher focusing on breast cancer, microfluidics, and chemical engineering. Her research areas include cancer biology, pharmacology, toxicology, medicinal chemistry, and chemical engineering. She graduated from Nazarbayev University and got her Bachelor of Science degree in Chemistry in 2020, and a Master’s degree in Pharmacology and Toxicology in 2022. Under the Shakhmardan Yessenov Foundation grant, she completed an internship at the Department of Neurosurgery at the University of Michigan. linkedin

### Zhibek Bekezhankyzy

She conducts research on glioblastoma at the Department of Neurosurgery, Michigan Medical School. Previously she worked at Nazarbayev University as a medical researcher focusing on breast cancer, microfluidics, and chemical engineering. Her research areas include cancer biology, pharmacology, toxicology, medicinal chemistry, and chemical engineering. She graduated from Nazarbayev University and got her Bachelor of Science degree in Chemistry in 2020, and a Master’s degree in Pharmacology and Toxicology in 2022. Under the Shakhmardan Yessenov Foundation grant, she completed an internship at the Department of Neurosurgery at the University of Michigan. linkedin